---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 3"
date:   2020-09-25 08:12:38 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---

<h1>Accessibility Rich Internet Applications(ARIA) </h1>
<p>
When it comes to web development it is recommended that native HTML is used when creating a web page since they provide keyboard focus, keyboard support, and semantics. Though there are times that standard HTML just wont cut it and this is where ARIA comes into play with it's set of attributes that make web content more accessible to users with disabilities.
</p>
<p>
ARIA is used to supplement HTML but also fix areas that native HTML can't fix for accessiblity. ARIA is meant to help areas that need it but proper HTML semantics should be used over ARIA if it exists. This is because the native elements already have built-in keyboard accessibility, roles, and states. This doesn't completely mean that a user can't create their own elements, if they so choose to create their own element that mimicks an existing element then it is the developers resonsibility that they use correct ARIA attributes to enable accessibility. 
</p>
<h2>Example</h2>
<p>
A common usage of ARIA is the usage of the attribute <code>aria-label</code> which provides assissitive techology users, such as screen reader users, with hidden text that is accessible by assissitive technologies. The best time to use this attribute is when one wants to use an element with no text that is provided for a userr and this attribute will be used as hidden text for assisstive technolgies.
</p>

<code>&lt;button aria-label = "Press F to pay respect" &gt; F &lt;/button&gt;</code>

<p>The usage of this labal will have this button read "Press F to pay respect, button" by a screen reader to a user.</p>

<p>
Another example of the usage of aria is the use of <code>aria-labelledby</code> not to be confused with <code>aria-label</code> since they seem similar in usage but they are used for different situations. Where <code>aria-label</code> is used for hidden text for an element, <code>aria-labelledby</code> takes the value of the id attribute on another element as its value, this creates a relationship between the two elements since they now have the same value. The text content of the element that we are getting the value from now becomes the accessible name for the element with the aria tag.
</p>
<code>
&lt;h2 id="example"&gt;This is an example&lt;/h2&gt;
<br>
<br> 
&lt;button aria-labelledby = "example"&gt; &lt;/button&gt;
</code>

<p>The accessible name for the button will now be "This is an example".</p>

<h2>Ending</h2>
<p>There are multiple ARIA attributes that help with accessibility and should be used when needed. I just went over a couple and barely scratched the surface of ARIA since javascript can be used for aria states. Overall HTML semantics should be used instead of aria if there is an element for the intended function.</p>