---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 5"
date:   2020-10-09 08:12:38 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---

<h1>CSS Flexbox</h1>

<p>
    Flexbox is a way of styling on-dimennsional layouts for webpages. It's a CSS display type like block, table, etc. but the difference is what a user is able to do with <code>display: flex;</code>. With flex a user can create many different types of layout options in a simple, brief and comprehensive manner. By using flex it works well with a responsive design and layout, and is probably one of the best options for vertical design and when the heights of things are unknown. Instead of a user using floats or inline-blocks a user can just declare <code>display: flex;</code> on the parent block and the child blocks will match up accordingly with the help of the properties used in flexbox.
<p>
    Though flexbox is great for solving many isssues and allows for better customization there are some limitations and issues. For example, older broswers and older phones that have not been updated do not support the flex property. Also, for more complex layouts CSS grid would be better to use as it works in two dimensions compared to FLexbox's one dimension.
</p>

<h2>Flexbox Properties</h2>
<p> There are many properties that flebox has that make customizable for someone and I will be going over some of the most commonly used ones.</p>

<code>display: flex</code>

<p>
    By having this command on your main container, it enables all the child containers that are followed in the main one to be flex content. i also included some propery values for each property as an example of what can be added for each property provided.
</p>

<code>flex-direction: row | row-reverse | column | column-reverse</code>

<p>
    Flexbox tries to keep things as simple as possible and with flex direction one is able to establish the direction of their containers either horizontally or vertically. So one can think of either having their containers set horizontrally or vertically and  with the different propery values one can specify in what direction their containers are going to be placed. 
</p>

<code>flex-wrap: nowrap | wrap | wrap-reverse;</code>

<p>
    With flex-wrap the containers that a user creates will wrap depending if they need more space. For example, if a user has three containers and the third one needs more space it will move to the next line and scale to match the size of the containers.
</p>

<code>justify-content: flex-start | flex-end | center | space-between | space-around | space-evenly ..... </code>

<p>
    With the <code>justify-content</code> property one will be able to distrubute space between the containers along the main axis. This means that if there is free space left over depending on the property value useed the containers will move according to the property value and use the free space.
</p>
