---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 9"
date:   2020-11-06 08:12:38 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---

<h1>Images in HTML and Accessibility</h1>

<h2>What is Alternative Text or Alt Text?</h2>
<p>
Alternative text, or Alt text, is used to provide information of an image. This is very important to screen reader users as a screen reader can read the alt text and read it back to the screen reader user. Also, if a user navigating with a mouse hovers over the image the alt text associated with the image will pop out in a text box showing the alt text.
</p>
<h3>Uses of Alt text</h3>
<ul>
    <li>The use of alternative text is a principle of accessibility. Alternative text is read by screen readers to provide a description of image to its user.</li>
    <li>If an image fails to load, alternative text is shown to give the user information about the image.</li>
</ul>

<p>
When an image fails to load if alt text is added the alt text is still able to relay the information to a user and a screen reader user will also be read the alt text associated to the image.
</p>

<h2>Decorative Images</h2>
<p>
There are times when on empty alt attribute should be used on images (alt = “”). For example, an image that is being used for decoration and has no other purpose than for aesthetics. The reason why an empty alt attribute would be used instead of just not having one is that screen readers would be able to skip the image but if the image does gain focus the screen reader will read “image”, or something similar. This is beneficial since if the screen reader does read the image and no alt attribute is associated with the image it will read the entire url. 
</p>
<code>alt = “”</code>
 
<h2>Complex Images</h2>
<p>
For more complex pictures like graphs, diagrams, illustrations, etc. simple alt text will not suffice for them. In these types of cases information about the images should be provided in text on the page. For images like graphs and charts a data table can be used to present the information to a screen reader user in a way they can navigate through. For things like diagrams or flow charts, either explaining them in a paragraph or using bulletins can be used to explain and convey the information to a screen reader user.
This flow chart for example has a lot of information that alt text would not be efficient to explain. In this case either using bullet points to structure the information in text or providing the information in a paragraph would be enough.
</p>
 
<h2>Captions</h2>
<p>
Images can have captions associated to them that will not only be read by a screen reader but can provide additional information to sighted users. To add captions to an image figure and figcaption elements can be used. The figure element would encapsulate both the img element followed by the figcaption element.
</p>