---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 8"
date:   2020-10-30 08:12:38 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---

<h1>CSS Grid</h1>

<p>
    CSS Grid Layout (aka “Grid”), is a two-dimensional grid-based layout that is different than flexbox. Where flexbox is a one-dimensional layout system Grid is a 2 dimensional layout system and it can accomplish the same things that flexbox is able to. One of the things that makes Grid very appealing is that it can lets a user align their items in columns and rows but it also allows them to create a lot more layouts. By using flex it allows a user to not use common css properties like floats based layouts though it doesn't replace them entirely.
    <br><br>
    Though grid may look like tables it is not tables at the end of the day. Grid is probably the most flexable thing in my opinion.
</p>

<h2>Grid Properties</h2>
<p> There are many properties that grid has that make customizable for someone and I will be going over some of the most commonly used ones.</p>

<code>display: grid;</code>
<p>
    By using this property and propery value it allows for the grid container to be established and for the content that will be put in it.
</p>

<code>girid-template-columns: </code>
<br>
<code>girid-template-rows: </code>
<p>
    This will define the columns and rows of the for the grid container, a user will also have to include the list of values that will determine the size of the rows and columns. 
</p>

<code>justify-items: start | end | center | stretch;</code>
<p>
    When justify-items is included it will align the items along the grid on the row axis. Meaning that you can move the conent to the center of the grid, right, left, and even stretch the content to fit the entire space of the grid space.
</p>

<code>align-items: start | end | center | stretch;</code>
<p>
    Align-items works similar to justify items the difference though is that it aligns items on the vertial/column axis instead. This lets you also move the conent to the center of the grid, right, left, and even stretch the content to fit the entire space of the grid space but vertically.
</p>
