---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 0"
date:   2020-09-01 20:02:38 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
Blog 0 
Installing Apache onto a Raspberry Pi

So I’ve had a raspberry pi sitting around for a while and decided to turn it into an apache web server. I plan to do this so I can host and practice some web development things and to put the pi to some use.

The first thing I wanted to do was to be able to access my raspberry pi’s terminal from my computer/laptop. To do this I connected my raspberry pi onto my tv, got onto the settings for my pi, and enabled SSH. Once I had this all I had to do was get the ip from my pi.

I used the command 

'ifconfig -a'

to output the IP. 

Once i had the IP I didn’t need to be connected to a tv or need any accessories to access the pi. To access the pi from my computer I need to run the command 

'ssh pi@<IP>'

and put in my password for my pi.

At this point I was able to access the pi’s terminal using powershell. From here I had to update my pi so I used the commands

'sudo apt update'

And

'sudo apt full-upgrade'

After my pi was updated I had to install apache 

Apache

sudo apt install apache2 -y 

Once everything has finished installing all I have to do now is use the IP of my pi on a web browser and it will show me the default web page indicating that apache is working and information to where the config files are at. 

From here I had to change directories to where the index.html file is

cd /var/www/html

Then by using the command 

ls

I was able to see the  index.html file. 


From here I got the web server going and can use commands to check the status, stop the server, start the server and restart it.

service apache2 status

sudo service apache2 start

sudo service apache2 restart

sudo service apache2 stop

PHP 

Now it is time to install PHP onto my raspberry pi using the command 

sudo apt install php -y

Once I installed php changed directories back to /var/www/html and removed the index_html file

sudo rm index.html

And then created a php file with a small script to make sure that it was working properly.

sudo vi index.html

Once I created the script I restarted my apache server and the php script worked. 

MySQL

Now I installed MySQLServer by running the command

Sudo apt install mariadb-server php-mysql -y

And once it was installed I ran the command 

Sudo mysql_secure_installation

This secures the MYSQL installation

From here I was prompted with with my password for root and then prompted with other questions with setting up the Mariadb and once I was done I was prompted with the message “Thanks for using MariaDB!”.

phpMyAdmin 

Now it is time to install the phpMyAdmin on the pi.

Sudo apt install phpmyadmin -y 

During the installation i was prompted with a prompt to configure the phpmyadmin.

The first prompt I selected apache2 

The Second prompt “Configure database for phpmyadmin with dbconfig-common? I selected Yes

Then i was prompted to enter my password

After that I used the command 

Sudo phpenmod mysqli 

To enable the PHP MYSQL extension 

I then restarted my apache server

Sudo service apache2 restart

From here I wanted to make sure that the phpmyadmin was working so I put my ip followed by phpmyadmin in my browser to make sure it  worked

<ip>/phpmyadmin 

It was giving me an error at first so I had to move the phpmyadmin folder onto my /var/www/html folder. I used the command     
sudo ln -s /usr/share/phpmyadmin /var/www/html/phpmyadmin

Now I refreshed the web page and the phpMyAdmin page was working properly. Also by using ls i was able to verify that the file was moved over.

Now that I have the phpMyAdmin I came to a new issue and that was that I was not able to log in. To fix this issue I had to create a username, password, and grant the user privileges.

To do this I had to run the command 

Sudo mysql

CREATE USER ‘your_username’@’localhost’ IDENTIFIED BY ‘your_password’;
GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES  ON *.* TO ‘your_username’@’localhost;
FLUSH PRIVILEGES;
exit

Now that all this was done I had my LAMP server done.

Note: Will do this over to include images.
