---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 7"
date:   2020-10-23 08:12:38 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---

<h1>WPA/WPA2/WP3</h1>
<h2>Brute Force/Dictionary Attack</h2>
<h3>Dictionary</h3> 
<p>A type of brute force attack where an intruder attempts to crack the password with a “dictionary list” of common words, phrases, and combination of words that are used by businesses and individuals.</p>
<p>In theory brute force always works, but if the space of possible combinations is too big it could take millions of years to find the right combination. To combat this problem, you only search the parts of the space that have a higher probability of having the right combination in them.</p>
<p>One can easily find a dictionary file online if they just google it.</p>
<h2>Fool a user</h2>
<h3>Man in the middle with phising</h3>         
<p>A man-in-the-middle attack requires three players. There’s the victim, the entity with which the victim is trying to communicate, and the “man in the middle,” who’s intercepting the victim’s communications. Critical to the scenario is that the victim isn’t aware of the man in the middle.</p>
<p>Let’s say you received an email that appeared to be from your bank, asking you to log in to your account to confirm your contact information. You click on a link in the email and are taken to what appears to be your bank’s website, where you log in and perform the requested task.</p>
<h2>Krack</h2>
<p>Using a technique called key reinstallation attack, when a client joins a network, it executes the 4-way handshake to negotiate a fresh encryption key. It will install this key after receiving message 3 of the 4-way handshake. The Access Point (AP) will retransmit message 3 if it did not receive an appropriate response as acknowledgment. As a result, the client may receive message 3 multiple times. Each time it receives this message, it will reinstall the same encryption key, and thereby reset the incremental transmit packet number (nonce) and receive the replay counter used by the encryption protocol. We show that an attacker can force these nonce resets by collecting and replaying retransmissions of message 3 of the 4-way handshake.</p>
<p>To address the vulnerability that was just mentioned that affects WPA2 and new protocol, WPA3 was introduced but a hack has been found already which has been dubbed Dragonblood.
<h2>Dragonblood</h2>
<h3>Combination of 2 bugs</h3> 
<p>CVE-2019-13377 and this impacts the WPA3's Dragonfly handshake when using Brainpool curves. Brainpool curves introduce a second class of side-channel leaks in the Dragonfly handshake of WPA3,and the new Brainpool leak in practice against the lastest Hostapd (host access point daemon) version, and were able to brute-force the password using the leaked information."
CVE-2019-13456 and this impacts the EAP-pwd implementation in the FreeRADIUS framework -- used by many vendors to support WiFi connectivity which allows attackers to recover passwords.</p>
