---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 2"
date:   2020-09-18 08:12:38 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---

<h1>Docker</h1>
<p>
It's been a while since I've used docker so I started read up on it and get accustomed to some of the commands. So this blog post wont be very detailed or a guide but just talking about some of the commands from docker.
</p>
<p>The command<code>docker version</code> returns the version that is currently installed on the computer and outputs the server. The server is also called the engine and the docker cmd is talking to the server and is returning its values and the clients values. If I want more information and configureation values for the servver I just have to run the command <code>docker info</code></p>

<h2>Images and Containers</h2>
<p>An image is a the source code and the libraries that are found in an application that is going to be ran. A container is just an instance of the image but is now running as a process. Ypu can spin up many containers off of just one image that is downloaded. The images that are pulled from into your docker come from registrries and the one for docker is Docker Hub (Hub.Docker.com).
</p>
<p>There are commands that are useful that are used a lot to see what images have been pulled and what containers have been created. For example, the commmand <code>docker container ls -a</code> shows all the containers that have been created while the command <code>docker container ls</code> shows only the currently running containers. To see what images are installed in Docker one  could run the command <code>docker images</code> or <code>docker image ls</code> which will list all the images that have been pulled. One could also filter the images that have been pulled by using <code>docker images --filter "this is were your keyword goes"</code>.
<h2>Deleting</h2>
<p>To remove containers that a person does not want any more a user can use the command <code>docker rm "container id"</code> or <code>docker container rm "container id"</code>. A user can also delete multiple containers at once by having spaces between the container id's but if a container that wants to be removed is running by defualt docker will not remove a running container. If a user wants to remove a running container then they would need to run the the command <code>docker container rm -f "container id"</code> which will force remove the container.
</p>
<p>To remove images a user will need to run the command <code>docker image rm "image"</code> or <code>docker rmi "image"</code>. 

<h2>Running Container</h2>
<p>To run a docker container from an image a user will need to run to command <code>docker container run</code</p>. You can specify what kind of image you want to run like Debian, ubuntu, etc. and if the image is not found on your computer then it will be pulled from tthe image repository and will pull the latest image. One could also specify what version they want to pull if they include a colon followed by the version. example. <code>ubuntu:"version_goes_here"</code>. There are also flags that can be added to configure your container when it is being made. For example, you can add a name to the conatiner by adding <code>--name</name> to name your container, <code>--publosh or -p</code> to publish a container's port to the host, <code>--detach or -d</code> that runs the container in the background and shows the containers ID, etc. 