---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 10"
date:   2020-11-13 08:12:38 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---

<h1>Screen Readers</h1>
<p>
    A screen reader is a type of assistive technology software that lets people with visual impairment be able to navigate and use a computer. Screen readers are essential to people who are blind, visually impaired, or have some form of learning disability. A screen reader works by trying to convey the information that a normal person will see on a computer and relay it back to the user by either text-to-speech, sound icons, or some form of braille device.
    <br>
    <br>
     The way a user will use a screen will be in conjunction with a keyboard or a braille keyboard. This will allow them to navigate a computer or webpage without the need for a mouse. The way they navigate is by either jumping around fields using tab or the arrow keys, depending on the type of field they are on or instructions given. There are also shortcuts that many screen readers have built-in that allows a screen reader sure to quickly see the information on a page instead of having to navigate through the entire page. These shortcuts include showing a user only the headings found on a page, links, and form fields. Hence, it's very important for anyone who is making a webpage to follow use proper HTML semantics since screen reader users and assistive technology users rely on proper HTML elements to be used so when a screen reader announces the type of element it is what it says it is.
</p>

<h2>JAWS</h2>
<p>
  JAWS is one of the most popular screen readers that is available to a user and is one of the most premium ones out there. Though, there is a fee if one wants to have access to this screen reader but has charge of $90 a year. Though it is really good for visually impaired users since it allows a user to surf the web, draft emails, and read either by text-to-speech or a braille display.
</p>

<h2>NV Access</h2>
<p>
    NV Access (NVDA) is a screen reader that can be downloaded by anyone since it is free of charge. NV Access has many of the same features that JAWs provides though the features are not as flushed out as JAWS it is one of the best if not the best free screen reader available for Windows.
</p>

<h2>VoiceOver</h2>
<p>
    The previous scren readers that have been mentioned are mostly used on Windows computers but if you are a MAC user then you don't have to worry about getting the ones reviously mentioned since MACs and iPhones have VoiceOver built in and you don't have to pay use them.
</p>
<p>
    Below i have provided a survey showing the usage of screen readers by users.
    <br>
    <a href="https://webaim.org/projects/screenreadersurvey8"> WebAIM: Screen Reader User Survey</a>
    <a href="https://webaim.org/projects/screenreadersurvey8/#primary">WebAIM: Screen Reader User Survey - Primaryt Screen Reader</a>
<p>