---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 0 SP21"
date:   2021-02-19 08:12:38 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---

<h1>Forms</h1>
<p>
Forms allow for information to be collected from a user. Examples of forms range from surveys, payment information, signing up to a website, etc. all these types of forms ask for information from a user. To get information from a user form controls are used which can be text input, uploading information, selecting choices, and submitting the form.
All form controls fall in between an opening and closing &lt;form&gt; tag. The form should always have a method attribute and an id attribute. The method attribute determines what type request the form will have, either post or get. The id attribute can help with manipulating the form if any type of style is to be applied. The id attribute can also be used by scripts to check and verify that the form was filled out correctly.
</p>
<h2>Action Attribute</h2>
<p>
The action attribute specifies where the data on the form will be sent to once the form is submitted or to retrieve data from.
</p>
<h2>Method Attribute</h2>
<p>
The method attribute specifies what type of HTTP request is used when submitting a form. By default, if no method attribute is specified the form is sent as get.
</p>
<h3>Get Method</h3>	
<p>
The get method is used to request information from the server from a specific location.
</p>
<ul>
    <li>Information can be bookmarked</li>
    <li>Can be Cached</li>
    <li>Remains in browser history</li>
    <li>Anyone can access it if they have the url</li>
    <li>Length restriction</li>
    <li>Less secure</li>
</ul>
<h3>Post Method</h3>
<p>
The post method is the opposite of the get method as it sends data, that was inputted by a user, to the server once the submit button is clicked. The post method should be used if forms are long, have sensitive information, allow users for to upload files, etc.
</p>
<ul>
    <li>Not cached</li>
    <li>Cannot be bookmarked</li>
    <li>Doesn’t remain in browser</li>
    <li>Doesn’t show data in url</li>
    <li>Safer than get</li>
    <li>Can be long</li>
</ul>
<h2>Input Element</h2>
<p>
The &lt;input&gt; element is used to create different types of form controls. The type attribute specifies what type of form control will be created.
Text Input Controls
</p>
<h3>Single line text</h3>
<ul>
    <li>&lt;input&gt;</li>
    <li>Type = “text”</li>
    <li>name attribute</li> 
    <li>maxlength attribute</li>
    <li>pattern attribute</li>
</ul>
<p>
A single line text form control is used when collecting information from a user requires one line of text, like first name or last names. To create a single line text form control, a &lt;input&gt; element is used with they type attribute set to text.
</p>
 
<h3>Multi line text</h3>
<ul>
    <li>&lt;textarea&gt; …. &lt;/textarea&gt;</li> 
    <li>Name attribute</li>
    <li>Rows attribute</li>
    <li>Cols attribute</li>
</ul>
<p>
The &lt;textarea&gt; element is used to create a multiline text input. Unlike the other form controls, the &lt;textarea&gt; element has a closing tag, &lt;/textarea&gt;. Any text that is placed in between the two tags will appear in the text area. If a user, who is filling out the form, does not clear the text that is placed inside the text area will be submitted when the user submits their form. In this case JavaScript can be used to remove whatever text is placed in the text area, if one chooses to add text.
</p>
<h3>Password</h3>
<ul>
    <li>&lt;input&gt;</li>
    <li>Type = “password”</li>
    <li>Name attribute</li>
    <li>Minlength attribute</li>
    <li>Maxlength attribute</li>
    <li>Required attribute</li>
    <li>Pattern attribute</li>
</ul>
<p>
Is a single line form control but conceals the text in the box with either an asterisk ( * ) or a dot ( ∙ ), depends on the browser being used. To create a password form control, the &lt;input&gt; element is used with the type attribute set to password.
</p>
 
<h2>Selection Controls</h2>
<h3>Radio Buttons</h3>
<ul>
    <li>&lt;input&gt;</li>
    <li>Type = “radio”</li>
    <li>Name attribute</li>
    <li>Value attribute</li>
    <li>Checked attribute</li>
</ul>
<p>
Radio buttons are used when one choice, from many options, is to be selected. To create a radio button form control, the &lt;input&gt; element is used with type attribute set to radio.
</p>
 
<h3>Checkboxes</h3>
<ul>
    <li>&lt;input&gt;</li>
    <li>Type = “checkbox”</li>
    <li>Name attribute</li>
    <li>Value attribute</li>
    <li>Checked attribute</li>
</ul>
<p>
Checkboxes are used when more than one option is to be selected from a range of options. To create a checkbox form control, the &lt;input&gt; element is used with the type attribute set to checkbox.
</p>
<h3>Select Menus</h3>
<ul>
    <li>&lt;select&gt; element</li>
    <li>Name attribute</li>
    <li>&lt;option&gt; element</li>
    <li>Value attribute</li>
    <li>Selected attribute</li>
    <li>Multiple attribute</li>
</ul>
<p>
The &lt;select&gt; element is used to make drop down menus with options that can be selected. To create a dropdown menu, that has options to be selected, an opening and closing &lt;select&gt; tag are needed to be used. To create the options in the dropdown menu, the &lt;option&gt; element needs to be nested inside the &lt;select&gt; element. Whatever text is placed between the opening &lt;option&gt; tag and the closing &lt;option&gt; tag will show in the drop-down menu box.
</p>
 
<h2>Form Submit</h2>
<h3>Submit</h3>
<ul>
    <li>&lt;input&gt;</li>
    <li>Type = “submit”</li>
    <li>Name attribute</li>
    <li>Value attribute</li>
</ul>
<h3>Button</h3>
<ul>
    <li>&lt;button&gt;</li>
</ul>
<p>
A &lt;button&gt; element can be used to make a submit button or for any other type of button functionality on the form. A &lt;button&gt; element used to submit a form can be easier to style than an &lt;input&gt; element that is used to submit a form.
</p>
<h3>Label Element</h3>
<p>
Form controls should have a &lt;label&gt; element associated with them. To associate a &lt;label&gt; element with a an &lt;input&gt; element the &lt;input&gt; element’s id attribute will need to match the &lt;label&gt; element’s for attribute. One could also place the input element inside label element to achieve the same goal. Adding a &lt;label&gt; element to a form control is important as it gives visual users an association with the form control, a screen reader is able to read the label, and if a user can click the label to active the form control.
</p>

<h4>Should have a label element</h4>
<ul>
    <li>Text entry fields</li>
    <li>Radio buttons</li>
    <li>Check boxes</li>
    <li>Select menus</li>
</ul>
<h4>Exceptions</h4>
<ul>
    <li>Buttons</li>
    <li>Hidden Inputs</li>
</ul>
<h2>Grouping Form Elements</h2> 
<h3>Fieldset and Legend</h3>
<p>
The &lt;fieldset&gt; element can be used to group form elements together to better structure a form. This can be useful especially in long forms since one can group similar types of elements together to better present to the user.
</p>
<p>
The &lt;legend&gt; element is used right after the &lt;fieldset&gt; element. The &lt;legend&gt; element provides a caption to provide information and better identify the &lt;fieldset&gt; group.
</p> 
<h3>Form Validation</h3>
<p>
Whenever there are messages or some form of error indicating that certain areas in a form have not been entered correctly that is an indication of form validation. One-way form validation is used is through the users side, this can be done by either using JavaScript or HTML validation features. Using the HTML for form validations can make a faster running form but is not as customizable as using JavaScript. The other way to check for form validation is by having the server check the form once it’s been submitted. The server check should be a last line of defense where it is the last thing that checks the form to make sure everything is filled out correctly. If there are errors it should prompt the user that there are errors that need to be changed.
</p>