---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 11"
date:   2020-11-20 08:12:38 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---

<h1>Pushing Images onto Dockerhub</h1>

<p>  
If a user wants to push a container image on to dockerHub
The first thing a user will have to do is create a DockerHub account, since this will allow you to create a repository and push an image onto it. Something to remember is that whenever one creates a new repository the repository is made up of the user or organization slash the repository.
</p>

Ex.  &lt;user&gt;/&lt;repository&gt;

<p>
Though, special official repositories are the only repositories that have the right to be named the actual name of the repository and not the name of the organization / repository. 
</p>
<p>
Ex. centos, ubuntu, alpine …
</p>
<p>
So what we’re going to do in this example is retag an existing image, rename, and push it onto our DockerHub. This can work if one creates an image from a Dockerfile. So first thing we’re going to do is pull the latest version of nginx.
</p>

<code>docker pull nginx </code> 
<br>
<code>docker image tag nginx &lt;username&gt;/nginx</code> 
<p>
Note: My username on DockerHub is Darvy so where the username is I would put Darvy.
So to push the image onto my dockerhub first I need to log onto my dockerhub account on docker. 
</p>
<code>docker login </code>
<p>
Now you just have to input your username and password and you’ll be logged onto your docker account on docker.
</p>
<p>
To push the image that we have created on to our docker repository we will now have to run the command
</p>
<code>docker image push &lt;username&gt;/nginx</code>
<p>Once all the push has finished it should be doen and if it worked it should be up on your docker repository.</p>

<p>Once you're done all you have to do is type in <code>docker logout</code> and you will be logged out of your account.</p>