---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 4"
date:   2020-10-02 08:12:38 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---

<h1>Dockerfile</h1>

<p>I decided to do my post on Dockerfile since it was something new I learned and I found it interesting to do.</p>

<p>A Dokerfile is a way to create an image. A better way to explain this is that the dockerfile has all the recipes for creating your image. A Docekrfile is it's own unique file which is different from batch, shell script, etc. </p>

<h2>Commands</h2>
<ul>
    <li><code>FROM</code></li>
        <p>This command is going to be in all of the dockerfiies that a user creates, since this defines the base image to start the build process. A user can indicate here what kind of distribution they want to create thier image off of like alpine, debian, ubuntu, etc. If a user wants to create their own image from scratch instead of having an existing distribution, <code>FROM ubuntu:latest</code> they would have to use <code>FROM scratch</code>. Though most people will use the already existing distributions since they save time, are updated freequently, and one of the main advantages of them is their already existing package distribution systems.</p>
    <li><code>ENV</code></li>
        <p>The <code>ENV</code> stands for environment variable which is used to set environment variables. These variables consist of key/values which can be accessed within the container by scripts and applications alike.</p>
    <li><code>RUN</code></li>
        <p>This command is executed during the building stage. This will be mostly used when a user needs to install packages, unzip some files, edit some files, etc.</p>
    <li><code>COPY</code></li>
        <p></p>
    <li><code>ADD</code> </li>
        <p>This command gets two arguments; a source and a destination. It basically copies the files from the source on the host into the container’s own filesystem at the set destination.</p>
    <li><code>CMD</code></li>
        <p>This command is used to execute shell commands but is not executed during the build stage. Used to execute specific commands.</p>
    <li><code>WORKDIR</code></li>
        <p>This command allows for a user to change to the specified directory to execute commands such as <code>RUN</code>, <code>CMD</code>, <code>COPY</code>, <code>ADD</code>, etc.</p>
    <li><code>EXPOSE</code></li>
        <p>This commmand is used to associate a specified port to enable networking between the running process inside the container and the outside.</p>
    <li><code>MAINTAINER</code></li>
        <p>This command declares the author, hence setting the author of the images. It should come after FROM.</p>
</ul>