---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 6"
date:   2020-10-16 08:12:38 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---

<h1>WEP</h1>
<p>
WEP uses the RC4 (Rivest Cipher 4) stream cipher and at this point has been deprecated because it suffers from various vulnerabilities related to the generation of the keystreams, the initialization vectors or IVs for short, and to the length of the keys.</p>

<p>
The biggest flaw in WEP is the IVs which are used to add randomness to the keystream; they are trying to avoid the reuse of the same keystream to encrypt different packets. Though this was not accomplished. For example in a 64-bit encryption 24-bits are used for the IVs and if you do the math 24-bits is not that long (with 2^24 =16,777,216 possible values).
Thus, after a certain period of time the same IVs and the same keystream will be reused, allowing the attacker to collect the cypher texts and perform statistical attacks to recover plain texts and the key.
</p>
<h2>FMS</h2>
<p>
The FMS attack relies on the way WEP generates the keystreams and on the fact that it also uses weak IV to generate weak keystreams, making it possible for an attacker to collect a sufficient number of packets encrypted with these keys, to analyze them, and recover the key.
</p>
<h2>Korek Attack</h2>
<p>
The Chopchop attack aims at giving an attacker the ability to decrypt a packet without knowing the key. The way this is done is that someone eavesdrops a packet, decrypts it, modifies it and injects it back into the network to generate more packages and therefore give more useful information to perform a full key recovery attack (i.e. a PTW attack).
This attack does not recover the WEP key itself, but merely reveals the plaintext.
</p>
<h2>PTW</h2>
<p>
The PTW is much more powerful than all the other attacks because it can make use of every packet captured. The PTW attack is based on another attack released in 2005 called the Klein attack after its creator. The PTW attack implements a key ranking system which instead of trying all possible combinations of the key, picks a set number of likely keys and continues the RC4 algorithm based on those likely numbers. Using different voting strategies the attacker can pick the most likely key byte at each decision in the tree to determine the correct key. 
</p>
<h2>ARP</h2>
<p>
ARP request replay attack is used to generate new initialization vectors (IVs). The program listens for an ARP packet then retransmits it back to the access point. This will cause the access point to repeat the ARP packet but with new IVs. The program will keep transmitting the same ARP packet over and over and each ARP packet repeated by the access point has a new IVs. It is all these new IVs which allow you to determine the WEP key. 
</p>
