---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 0"
date:   2020-09-11 17:12:38 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
<h1>Best Practices for Chatbots</h1>
<h2>Introduction</h2>
A chatbot is an AI
<h2>Skip Link</h2>
<p>Since most bots are typically found at the bottom of a page there should be a way to bypass all the information on a page and navigate directly onto the chatbot. By adding a “Skip Link” it would allow users such as screen reader users to be able to navigate straight to the chatbot instead of having to navigate through links or focusable elements on the page before they land on the chatbot. Also, this will notify a screen reader user that there is a chatbot available on the page, This is important since not all users navigate through all the information on a page and since most chatbots are found at the bottom of a page they may leave the page before they were able to navigate onto it.</p>
<h2>Visual Focus</h2>
<p>When a keyboard user is navigating the chatbot it is important that keyboard focus is present to give a visual indication of where a user currently is on the chatbot. This is important because it allows sighted users to know what element they are on. If there is no visual focus, then it becomes a barrier and can make it difficult for users to access information.</p>
<h2>Color Contrast</h2>
<p>A visual way that can be used to differentiate between a user and the bot’s responses is by using color on the message bubbles to differentiate between the two. Though there should be enough color contrast between the font and color of the chat bubble.
<br><br>
Note: Color should not be the only indication of differentiation between the two since not all users rely on visual cues.</p>
<h2>Sender/Reader Indicator</h2>
<p>Adding an identifier to indicate who sent what message (like a timestamp) can help not just visual users identify who sent what message but also screen reader users. This can be useful for a screen reader user since they will be able to differentiate who sent what message when they are listening to the screen reader. It is also helpful since if they were to navigate to previous messages it will help with differentiating between what they sent and what the bot responded with. This can also be helpful to visual users since it will help with identifying what messages are from them and the bot.</p>
<h2>Navigable</h2>
<p>The chatbot should navigable, meaning that all the elements that are supposed to gain keyboard focus and function as intended are able to be accessed. This means that a user can tab, use enter, and the arrow keys where they are meant to be used. Also, after a certain amount of responses from the user and a chatbot a scroll bar appears, and they can use it with the arrow keys.</p>
