---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 12"
date:   2020-12-04 08:12:38 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---

<h1>Links and Acccessibility</h1>
<p>
Links are references to other pages associated with a website, to a separate website, or links to sections of a web page. To define a link in html a user will need to use an anchor tag which consists of:
</p>
<ul>
    <li><code><a> </code> - the anchor tag</li>
    <li>Href – stands for hypertext reference and is the attribute that holds the url</li>
    <li>Link Text which is what a user sees as the link. A screen reader user will hear the description of the link</li>
</ul>
<p>
Example:
</p>
	<code><a href = “URL” > Link Text </a></code>
<h2>Link Text</h2>
<p>
Color is used often in links to distinguish between regular text and a link. This can be very helpful to sighted users but color shouldn’t be the only indicator of a link. Users who are color blind may need more than color to distinguish between a link and regular text. An underline, or other type of visual indicator, associated with the link can help distinguish a link and is not only helpful to a colorblind user but also to someone who may have some visual impairment.
<br><br>
When making a link the text for the link should properly describe to the user what the link is about. When a screen reader is reading a page and the link is read the screen reader will say “link” followed by the description of the link. Ambiguous descriptions like “Read more”, “continue”, “Click Here”, etc. should be avoided as they do not provide any context of the link. 
</p>
<h2>Links and accessibility</h2>
<p>
For screen reader users instead of having the screen reader read the entire page to them they can quickly navigate a website using the links on a page. If a screen reader user chooses to navigate a website this way having proper descriptive links can be beneficial to them. Also links that are made with visual indicators and don’t just rely to color for distinction can help colorblind users.
</p>
<p>
This link shows the percentage of users who navigate websites using links.
</p>

<h2>Target attribute</h2>
<p>
The target attribute on an anchor element can be used to make a link open in a new tab. By default, if no target attribute is used the link will open in the current page, unless the user or browser specify not to. To have a link open in another page target = “_blank” should be used, this will open the link in another tab. This can be useful as the user can easily go back to the page they were on before once they are done visiting the link they clicked.
</p>
<h2>Images as Links</h2> 
<p>
Images can provide functionality and are not only used to provide visual information. They can be used as either buttons, links, or other type of interactive elements. The alt text attribute should provide the purpose of the image instead of a description of the image. For example, instead of having “example logo” for the image link “example homepage” would provide sufficient information to a screen reader. Not having an alt tribute or having an empty alt attribute to these types of images creates a huge issue with functionality to the page to a screen reader user. 	
</p>
In this example the primary function of the Nike log is used as a link to the Nike homepage. 
 
 
