---
layout: post
title:  "Blog 9 SP21"
date:   2021-04-30 08:12:38 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---

<h1>Amazon Cloudfront</h1>


<p>
    Amazon's Cloudfront is a CDN(Content Delivery Network) is used for fast delivery of content and having fast transfer rate of information. This is benificial if a company is using API's, video, transfering files, security, jpeg, etc. since its purpose is to deliver this content to a user quickly. The way it is able to deliver content to a website quickly is that it uses edge locations to store the dynamic and static content and by directly connecting to the enduser ISP for quick elivery and by offering regional edge cache locations. Also by having this content stored in the edge locations it is able to provide the lowest possible latency and fast performance. Another thing is if the conetent is not in the edge location it will look for the original content which will usually be found in the S3 bucket or an HTTP server. A benifit of using this service that a user only pays for the information that they deliver and request from a customer. There is no fee for having the service mounted, there is no premium for certain content, a user does have to have a commitment to using the service. 
</p>
<p>Some of the uses cases include</p>
<li>
    <ul>Video Streaming</ul>
    <ul>Static Web content</ul>
    <ul>API integration</ul>
    <ul>Encryption of specific fields</ul> 
    <ul>Serve Private Content</ul>
</li>

<p>It is also not very hard to automate the service if a user is using something like Terraform. Hashi Corp has great examples and documentation on how to include and add this service when writing code. <a href="https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs/resources/cloudfront_distribution">CloudFront Terraform by Hashi Corp.</a></p>